We're using componentDidUpdate here for
the first time that you've seen it.
But you'll use this all the time, this is
not specific to, Error boundaries, right?
This can be used in any class component.
You can kinda think of this like
a useEffect that's dependent on something,
right?
So we used one in useReadList, right?
This is basically like,
this useEffect here is basically
componentDidUpdate that only
responds to animal, right?
So anytime that animal changes,
this effect gets run.
It's pretty similar, not totally
the same here with componentDidUpdate.
This is just basically a useEffect
that responds to any state change.
And then you just have to check to make
sure that you're responding to the correct
state change.
The big difference here is
componentDidUpdate doesn't run at start,
right?
Whereas useEffect,
no matter what you're responding to
will always run at the beginning.
That's the hair to split there.
Yeah.
>> It's time to clarify
how it's all working.
So the error occurs which
causes the component to update,
then we get to that conditional
which would be true.
The timer starts off, then we hit the
setState, which gives us redirect true.
And then does the state updating cause
the render function to be called again?
>> It does.
>> And that's why-
>> Correct,
every time that you call setState, you can
guarantee that a rerender's gonna happen.
>> Okay.
>> You mentioned just a second ago,
we can think of componentDidUpdate as
a useEffect that responds
to any state change.
Is that specifically any state change for
this component then?
>> Yes.
>> Okay.
>> It only cares about its own state,
it cares about no parent nor
child state, just its own state.
Yeah, just for funsies, let's just
walk through the entire lifecycle
of what happens in this damn component.
All right, so we're in details.
We hit our hilarious error here, right?
This is going to throw an error
which is going to crash.
You can see my linter is very upset
that this is unreachable code.
It's going to hit WrappedDetails which
is gonna hit this ErrorBoundary.
This ErrorBoundary component does have
a component, or not a componentDidCatch.
We actually could just leave this out
totally, all this is doing is reporting.
So it's actually gonna call this
function here, getDerivedStateFromError.
Which is going to rerender this again,
but it's going to return this new state.
This is basically calling
setState on a crash state, right?
So this is going to rerender again with
this hasError, which does this, right?
It renders, right?
And the first time it does have an error,
but does not have redirect, right?
So it's going to call this and
we're going to hit this block here,
right, cuz it has an error.
It's also going to call
componentDidUpdate.
And this error, it does have an error this
time, so it's gonna set a timeout for
in 5,000 milliseconds to call
this.setState with redirect true.
Once you call setState again
it's going to rerender again and
it's gonna hit this block, which is gonna
cause it to navigate to the homepage.
Now mind you, typically if this was
not navigating, it would've called
componentDidUpdate again, but it's gonna
unrender itself before that happens.
Okay, does that makes sense?
It's a bit convoluted, not something you
have to do very frequently with React,
it's kind of an advanced use case.
But it's good for you to kinda see how
all the component lifecycle methods can
interact with each other.
All right, cool.
Questions about error boundaries?
We've now hit ten dash error boundaries,
if you wanna catch up there.
>> Could you please explain again,
I just noticed on line 27 there's that,
it's in curly brackets,
the empty string again, yeah.
And you have that as well in your demo,
but it's right after the link tag.
Can you remind me what that's doing?
>> Yeah, This is Prettier
specifically that's doing this.
So Prettier tries to keep your line
length relatively tame, right?
There's some people that are super bent
over or bent out of shape about I need
80 characters on this line,
if it's 81 then I lose my mind, right?
So what Prettier in
general tries to do and
tries to be reasonable about as it tries
to put 80-ish characters per line, or 120,
I don't remember exactly
what that character.
But some reasonable amount
of characters per line.
When you have a really long
string that has intermediate text
kind of things like a tags and
link tags and things like that.
Sometimes it has to get a little weird
about making those lines kind of
connect succinctly.
So the way that it can do this is
this is basically just, I mean,
you've seen the curly brackets, right,
with the JavaScript expression.
All it's doing here is
it's adding a space.
But it's doing that explicitly so
that there's a space between the link and
JK period, right?
I think this would work, right,
you could just put the space here.
And that should work, and in any case,
I just tend to ignore it because it's
Prettier putting it in there and
the net result is the same thing.
>> Thank you.
>> Mm-hm, actually you can see there,
it took the space out.
Whereas if we put the space here
like that, The space is back in.
So I've never really dug into it enough
to really find out why it does that.
But it's the finicky nature of it,
it's just trying to put a space
there cuz you asked it to.
>> Is it safe to assume that
getDerivedStateFromError
access setState for us passing to
it it's return value as an arg?
>> Yeah, so I think the question is,
you're returning an object here,
is it safe to assume
that this gets passed directly to
a setState call instead of React?
I haven't dug into the code to know
precisely the methodology that it does it.
But functionally and pragmatically, yes,
you can make that assumption in your head.
I've never seen that vary in behavior.
Whatever you return here
is basically functionally
calling setState with whatever
object you have here.
But I haven't shown you this, but you can
actually call setState with a function.
And there's some people that prefer
that whatever you return the function
gets passed into setState.
There's some reason that
people like doing that, and
I cannot remember off the top of my head.
For example, here I do not know if
you can pass a function in here.
I don't know if that works,
I haven't tried.
I guess we could just try and
see if it works.
>> Is there a way to prevent useEffect
from running when the component mounts for
the first time?
>> Not off the top of my head.
>> Would that be an appropriate
time to use componentDidUpdate or
am I'm misunderstanding how it is?.
>> Well, the question is,
in a function component,
can you prevent useEffect from running?
What you would do,
the way I would do it is you would
just put an if statement there.
If this is the first time running,
then don't execute whatever
I don't want to execute.
But I don't think there's a methodology
for preventing it from running and
just running on updates,
not off top my head, anyway.